README.md, before:

# CyberPulse: Cybersecurity Threat Analytics Dashboard
## 📊 Project Overview
CyberPulse is an interactive analytics dashboard that helps organizations understand global cybersecurity threat patterns, identify high-risk sectors, and evaluate defense mechanism effectiveness. This project transforms raw cyber-incident data into actionable intelligence through advanced clustering and visualization techniques.


Dataset Link : https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/atharvasoundankar/global-cybersecurity-threats-2015-2024?


Youtube Link: https://youtu.be/KDb9fqNzilM

## 🚀 Key Features
- **Global Threat Visualization**: Interactive choropleth maps showing financial impact by country
- **Industry Analysis**: Detailed breakdown of attacks by industry sector
- **Threat Profiling**: AI-powered clustering of incidents into distinct threat categories
- **Defense Evaluation**: Analysis of defense mechanism effectiveness
- **Time Series Analysis**: Trends in cyber attacks over time
- **Interactive Filters**: Dynamic filtering by year, industry, country, and threat type
## 🛠️ Installation
### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8+
- pip (Python package manager)
### Setup Instructions
1. Clone this repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Ravikant2003/CyberPulse-Cybersecurity-Threat-Analytics-Dashboard.git
```
2. Install the required dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
3. Place your dataset in the `data/raw/` directory with the filename `cyber_threats.csv`
## 📈 Usage
### Data Preparation
```bash
python src/data_cleaner.py
```
### Machine Learning Model Training
```bash
python src/model_trainer.py
```
### Launch the Dashboard
```bash
streamlit run app/dashboard.py
```
## 📁 Project Structure
```
cyberpulse-threat-analytics/
├── data/
│   ├── raw/                 # Original dataset
│   └── processed/           # Cleaned and processed data
├── notebooks/               # Jupyter notebooks for EDA
├── src/                     # Source code for data processing and ML
│   ├── data_cleaner.py      # Data cleaning and preprocessing
│   └── model_trainer.py     # ML model training
├── app/                     # Streamlit dashboard application
│   └── dashboard.py         # Main dashboard application
                              # Trained ML models
├── images/                    #It has all the dashboard images
├── requirements.txt         # Python dependencies
└── README.md               # Project documentation
```
## 🔮 Machine Learning Approach
The project uses K-Means clustering to categorize cyber incidents into distinct threat profiles based on:
1. **Financial Impact**: Monetary losses from attacks
2. **User Impact**: Number of affected users
3. **Resolution Time**: Time taken to resolve incidents
The algorithm automatically determines the optimal number of clusters using silhouette scoring, ensuring data-driven segmentation of threats.
## 🎯 Business Applications
This dashboard helps organizations:
- Identify high-risk sectors and regions
- Allocate security resources more effectively
- Understand the effectiveness of different defense mechanisms
- Prepare for emerging threat patterns
- Make data-driven decisions about cybersecurity investments
## 📝 License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
## 🙏 Acknowledgments
- Dataset source: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/atharvasoundankar/global-cybersecurity-threats-2015-2024?

## 📸 Streamlit Dashboard Pictures

![Dashboard Screenshot 1](images/Pic1.png)

![Dashboard Screenshot 2](images/Pic2.png)

![Dashboard Screenshot 3](images/Pic3.png)

![Dashboard Screenshot 4](images/Pic4.png)

Commit message:

Clear Mention of Vulnerability trends

README.md, after:

# CyberPulse: Cybersecurity Threat Analytics Dashboard
## 📊 Project Overview
CyberPulse is an interactive analytics dashboard that helps organizations understand global cybersecurity threat patterns, identify high-risk sectors, and evaluate defense mechanism effectiveness. This project transforms raw cyber-incident data into actionable intelligence through advanced clustering and visualization techniques.


Dataset Link : https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/atharvasoundankar/global-cybersecurity-threats-2015-2024?


Youtube Link: https://youtu.be/KDb9fqNzilM

## 🚀 Key Features
- **Global Threat Visualization**: Interactive choropleth maps showing financial impact by country
- **Industry Analysis**: Detailed breakdown of attacks by industry sector
- **Threat Profiling**: AI-powered clustering of incidents into distinct threat categories
- **Defense Evaluation**: Analysis of defense mechanism effectiveness
- **Time Series Analysis**: Trends in cyber attacks over time
- **Interactive Filters**: Dynamic filtering by year, industry, country, and threat type

## Key Vulnerability Trends Analyzed

In this project, we analyzed **10 years of cybersecurity incident data** to uncover actionable trends guiding security priorities:

- **Financial Loss:** Identifies which types of incidents cause the most monetary impact, helping prioritize high-risk vulnerabilities.
- **Number of Affected Users:** Shows which threats affect the largest portion of users, guiding risk mitigation efforts.
- **Incident Resolution Time:** Highlights incidents that take longer to resolve, revealing process bottlenecks and areas for improving response efficiency.

## 🛠️ Installation
### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8+
- pip (Python package manager)
### Setup Instructions
1. Clone this repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Ravikant2003/CyberPulse-Cybersecurity-Threat-Analytics-Dashboard.git
```
2. Install the required dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
3. Place your dataset in the `data/raw/` directory with the filename `cyber_threats.csv`
## 📈 Usage
### Data Preparation
```bash
python src/data_cleaner.py
```
### Machine Learning Model Training
```bash
python src/model_trainer.py
```
### Launch the Dashboard
```bash
streamlit run app/dashboard.py
```
## 📁 Project Structure
```
cyberpulse-threat-analytics/
├── data/
│   ├── raw/                 # Original dataset
│   └── processed/           # Cleaned and processed data
├── notebooks/               # Jupyter notebooks for EDA
├── src/                     # Source code for data processing and ML
│   ├── data_cleaner.py      # Data cleaning and preprocessing
│   └── model_trainer.py     # ML model training
├── app/                     # Streamlit dashboard application
│   └── dashboard.py         # Main dashboard application
                              # Trained ML models
├── images/                    #It has all the dashboard images
├── requirements.txt         # Python dependencies
└── README.md               # Project documentation
```
## 🔮 Machine Learning Approach
The project uses K-Means clustering to categorize cyber incidents into distinct threat profiles based on:
1. **Financial Impact**: Monetary losses from attacks
2. **User Impact**: Number of affected users
3. **Resolution Time**: Time taken to resolve incidents
The algorithm automatically determines the optimal number of clusters using silhouette scoring, ensuring data-driven segmentation of threats.
## 🎯 Business Applications
This dashboard helps organizations:
- Identify high-risk sectors and regions
- Allocate security resources more effectively
- Understand the effectiveness of different defense mechanisms
- Prepare for emerging threat patterns
- Make data-driven decisions about cybersecurity investments
## 📝 License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
## 🙏 Acknowledgments
- Dataset source: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/atharvasoundankar/global-cybersecurity-threats-2015-2024?

## 📸 Streamlit Dashboard Pictures

![Dashboard Screenshot 1](images/Pic1.png)

![Dashboard Screenshot 2](images/Pic2.png)

![Dashboard Screenshot 3](images/Pic3.png)

![Dashboard Screenshot 4](images/Pic4.png)
